README.md, before:

# Python FastAPI Bigger Applications Template

![python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.11.6-informational)
![fastapi-0.109.0-informational](https://img.shields.io/badge/fastapi-0.109.0-informational)
<a href="https://github.com/new?template_name=python-fastapi-bigger-applications-template&template_owner=kwame-mintah">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/use%20this-template-blue?logo=github">
</a>

This a template project, to demonstrate using FastAPI in a bigger application. The same file structure
has been followed as per FastAPI [docs](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/bigger-applications/).

This repository is intended as a quick-start and includes the following:

- A `Dockerfile` to build the FastAPI application following [guidelines](https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/guidelines/)
- `docker-compose.yml` file to build and start the application
- GitHub Action workflow to run linting and unit tests
- Pre-commit hooks to run on each commit
- Pydantic models as response models for endpoints
- Unit and feature tests for endpoints

## Usage

1. Install python packages used for the service

    ```console
   pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```
2. Run the FastAPI server, which will run on port 8000

    ```console
   python app/main.py
    ```
   Endpoint documentation are available on http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs

## Docker

Running the `docker-compose.yml`, will build a new image python-fastapi-bigger-applications-template-fastapi:latest
which will be used for the `fastapi` service within the container.

```console
docker-compose up -d
```

## Tests

Unit tests are located in `/tests/unit` directory, run unit tests using:

```console
pytest tests/unit
```

Additionally, a coverage report can be generated using [`pytest-cov`](https://pypi.org/project/pytest-cov/):

```console
pytest --cov=app tests/unit --cov-report=html:coverage_report
```

Will generate a coverage HTML file, in the `/coverage_report/` directory, simply open the `index.html` in your chosen web browser.

Integration tests are located in `/tests/integration` directory, run integration using:

```console
pytest tests/integration
```

Commit message:

docs(readme): new section for contributing and github actions
provide more information to install pre-commit and what github actions are provided

README.md, after:

# Python FastAPI Bigger Applications Template

![python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.11.6-informational)
![fastapi-0.109.0-informational](https://img.shields.io/badge/fastapi-0.109.0-informational)
<a href="https://github.com/new?template_name=python-fastapi-bigger-applications-template&template_owner=kwame-mintah">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/use%20this-template-blue?logo=github">
</a>

This a template project, to demonstrate using FastAPI in a bigger application. The same file structure
has been followed as per FastAPI [docs](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/bigger-applications/).

This repository is intended as a quick-start and includes the following:

- A `Dockerfile` to build the FastAPI application
  following [guidelines](https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/guidelines/)
- `docker-compose.yml` file to build and start the application
- GitHub Action workflow to run linting and unit tests
- Pre-commit hooks to run on each commit
- Pydantic models as response models for endpoints
- Unit and integration feature tests for endpoints

## Usage

1. Install python packages used for the service

    ```console
   pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```
2. Run the FastAPI server, which will run on port 8000

    ```console
   python app/main.py
    ```
   Endpoint documentation are available on http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs

## Docker

Running the `docker-compose.yml`, will build a new image python-fastapi-bigger-applications-template-fastapi:latest
which will be used for the `fastapi` service within the container.

```console
docker-compose up -d
```

## Tests

Unit tests are located in `/tests/unit` directory, run unit tests using:

```console
pytest tests/unit
```

Additionally, a coverage report can be generated using [`pytest-cov`](https://pypi.org/project/pytest-cov/):

```console
pytest --cov=app tests/unit --cov-report=html:coverage_report
```

Will generate a coverage HTML file, in the `/coverage_report/` directory, simply open the `index.html` in your chosen
web browser.

Integration tests are located in `/tests/integration` directory, run integration using:

```console
pytest tests/integration
```

## Contributing

Git hook scripts are very helpful for identifying simple issues before pushing any changes.
Hooks will run on every commit automatically pointing out issues in the code e.g. trailing whitespace.

To help with the maintenance of these hooks, [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/) is used, along
with [pre-commit-hooks](https://pre-commit.com/#adding-pre-commit-plugins-to-your-project).

Please following [these instructions](https://pre-commit.com/#install) to install `pre-commit` locally and ensure that
you have run
`pre-commit install` to install the hooks for this project.

Additionally, once installed, the hooks can be updated to the latest available version with `pre-commit autoupdate`.

## GitHub Actions (CI/CD)

GitHub project has three workflow set up, found in `.github/workflows/`:

- '🧹 Run linter' (`run-linter.yml`): To run [Flake8](https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/) and check Python code system
  and comply with various style guides.
- '🧪 Run unit tests' (`run-unit-tests.yml`): To run unit tests within a continuous integration (CI) environment,
  using [`pytest`](https://docs.pytest.org/en/8.2.x/).
